In this video I'd like to briefly talk about the C plus plus standard exception class hierarchy C++
provides a class hierarchy of exception classes these exception classes are used throughout the C++
standard libraries this exception class is the base class in all other exception classes are ultimately
derived from it.
Exception provides a virtual function named.
What that returns a C-style string with a description of the exception that occurred.
We can create subclasses of the exception classes and then implement the virtual function so that it
displays whatever exception message we want.
Let's take a look at the exception class hierarchy.
Here's the C plus plus standard library exception class hierarchy.
The classes that are in orange are the C++ 17 additions to the class hierarchy.
Notice that the common base class in the center is stood exception.
And then we have many classes derived from it.
Exceptions that are runtime errors logic errors bad allocation errors out of range errors and many more
we aren't going to study these classes in detail but we can create our own user defined classes that
are derived from the exception classes.
This can be very useful in some situations since by being derived publicly from stood exception our
classes are now part of this hierarchy and can be used wherever a good exception is expected since your
class is an exception.
Also thanks to dynamic polymorphism.
All you have to do is implement the what virtual function and it will be bound dynamically at runtime.
Let's see an example of how we could create an illegal balance exception for our account class.
But this time let's derive it from stood exception.
Here's a simple example that shows how we create our user defined exception class named illegal balance
exception and this might be thrown if the account is created with a negative balance.
Notice that we derive the class publicly from stood exception and we simply provide a default constructor
and a default destructor.
Finally we implement the what.
Virtual function and return a C-style string describing the exception.
This is a really simple implementation we could provide all sorts of error information codes descriptions
and so forth as class attributes and initialize them in the constructor when we create and throw the
object.
There's a keyword here that I haven't talked about yet.
That is the No except keyword.
This tells the compiler that the method will not throw an exception.
So don't throw exceptions from these methods.
The destructor is no except by default.
If you do happen to throw an exception from a no throw method the program will terminate.
The exception will not be handled.
Let's see how we might use the account class hierarchy that we've used throughout the course.
Here's the code for our count constructor.
We're checking to see if the account balance is less than zero and if it is we're throwing in a legal
balance exception which is our user defined exception class derived from state exception.
This code should look pretty familiar since it's more or less the same code that we wrote when we created
our own standalone illegal balance exception class.
Now we can try to create an account object.
In this case will create a unique pointer and create a checking account object dynamically.
Notice that we're creating Moze account with a negative 100 balance.
This is not legal so we expect that the account constructor will throw in a legal balance exception
object and that's exactly what we're catching in our catch handler.
In this case the catch handler fires and we call X dot what which will display illegal balance exception.
That's pretty powerful and not too difficult to understand or use.
Well that's it for exception handling the challenge exercise for this section is next.
And although it would involve some more advanced exception handling techniques than you'll find in most
courses I think you'll be able to do it just fine.
Let's get to it.